---
id: developer_overview
title: Introduction and overview
---

Let's get a high-level view of the JBrowse 2 ecosystem.

## Products and plugins

The JBrowse 2 ecosystem has two main type of top-level artifacts that are
published on their own: products and plugins.

![](./img/products_and_plugins.png)

Architecture diagram of JBrowse 2, showing how plugins encapsulate views (e.g.
LinearGenomeView, DotplotView etc.), tracks (AlignmentsTrack, VariantTrack,
etc.), data adapters (BamAdapter, VcfTabixAdapter, etc.) and other logic like
mobx state tree autoruns that add logic to other parts of the app (e.g. adding
context menus)

A "product" is an application of some kind that is published on its own (a web
app, an electron app, a CLI app, etc). `jbrowse-web`, `jbrowse-desktop`, and
`jbrowse-cli` are products.

A "plugin" is a package of functionality that is designed to "plug in" to a
product **at runtime** to add functionality. These can be written and published
by anyone, not just the JBrowse core team. Not all of the products use plugins,
but most of them do.

Also, most of the products are pretty standard in the way they are constructed.
For example, jbrowse-web is a React web application that is made with [Create
React App (CRA)](https://create-react-app.dev/), and jbrowse-cli is a
command-line tool implemented with [OCLIF](https://oclif.io/).

## What's in a plugin

A plugin is an independently distributed package of code that is designed to
"plug in" to a JBrowse application.

It's implemented as a class that extends `@gmod/jbrowse-core/Plugin`. It gets
instantiated by the application that it plugs into, and it has an `install`
method and a `configure` method that the application calls. This class is
distributed as a webpack bundle that exports it to a namespace on the browser's
`window` object specifically for JBrowse plugins[^1].

It's common for a plugin to use have its `configure` method set up [mobx
autoruns or reactions](https://mobx.js.org/refguide/autorun.html) that react to
changes in the application's state to modify its behavior.

Plugins often also have their `install` method add "pluggable elements" into
the host JBrowse application. This is how plugins can add new kinds of views,
tracks, renderers, and so forth.

[^1]: This means it's only possible to have one version of a particular plugin loaded on any given webpage, even if multiple products are loaded and using it on the same page.
