---
id: user_guide
toplevel: true
title: User guide
---

import Figure from './figure'

This user guide is a comprehensive compilation of all general UI navigation,
tools/features available for some of the different track types, and other
useful features for using JBrowse.

- [Basic usage](../docs/user_manual/basic_usage.md)
- [Sequence track](../docs/user_manual/sequence_track.md)

## Hi-C tracks

Visualizing Hi-C data can be performed with .hic files generated by
the Juicebox software suite. It uses the hic-straw module developed by the
juicebox/igv.js team to visualize it in JBrowse.

Currently configuration options are basic for Hi-C tracks, see
[the comprehensive config guide](../config_guide#hictrack-config) for info about configuring Hi-C
tracks.

<Figure caption="Screenshot of a Hi-C track." src="/img/hic_track.png" />
### Getting the protein sequence for features

If you have a track with gene or transcript level features, then the feature
detail sidebar will automatically stitch together the sequence for that
feature. Options include:

- CDS - the coding sequences, spliced together
- Protein - performs protein translation on the CDS, currently assuming the
  default codon translation table
- cDNA - the CDS plus UTR, or just all exons if a non-coding gene
- Gene w/ introns - the entire gene region sequence with the introns included
- Gene w/ 10bp of introns - the spliced gene sequence with 10bp around the
  splice sites shown
- Gene w/ 500 up+down stream - the entire gene region with 500bp upstream and
  downstream (shown in light red)
- Gene w/ 500 up+down stream + 10bp of introns - the spliced gene sequence with
  10bp around the splice sites shown and the up/down stream shown

Some of the parameters such as 500bp and 10bp are arbitrarily chosen, if you are
interested in adjusting these default parameters [let us know](/contact/).

<Figure caption="The sequence for the upstream and downstream, exons, and intron sequences shown in the feature details." src="/img/feature_detail_sequence.png" />

## Using the plugin store

Users can add plugins to their session using the in-app plugin store. The
plugin will be added to your "session" which can be shared with the share
button (or if you are an admin running the admin-server, then it will be added
to the config file).

This can add extra functions, tracks, or many other interesting features. For
example, if you add the CIVIC plugin, it will automatically add a track that
contains the CIVIC cancer gene annotations to hg19.

:::info Note
Not all plugins are directly useful from being added, and require hand-editing of the configuration file to be useful.
If you would like to use such a plugin and do not have access to the configuration file, contact your administrator.
:::

<Figure caption="Screenshot showing the plugin store inside the app." src="/img/plugin_store.png" />

## Using the bookmark widget

The "bookmark widget" can store lists of interesting regions that you might like to easily revisit.

<Figure caption="Clicking and dragging on a region can be used to create a bookmark." src="/img/bookmark_widget.png"/>

The bookmark stores a list of single regions (chromosome, start, and end
coordinate), and clicking on the regions in the bookmark widget will launch a
linear genome view at that region.

You can also import a list of regions from a BED file.

<Figure caption="Importing a list of regions from a BED file." src="/img/bookmark_widget_import.png"/>

:::info Note
You can add "notes" for your list of regions by double clicking on the label field to easily "annotate" your datasets.
:::

<Figure caption="Screenshot editing description." src="/img/bookmark_widget_edit_label.png"/>

Finally, you can export your list of regions to a BED file or TSV.
