---
id: 01_introduction
title: Introduction
---

## Welcome!

This tutorial will show you how to get a JBrowse 2 linear genome view embedded
in a website. It is similar to a
[tutorial given a BCC2020](../../bcc2020_embedding_jbrowse_01_getting_started),
but has been updated to reflect the final, released version of the interface.

## What is JBrowse 2

JBrowse 2 is a pluggable open-source platform for visualizing and integrating
biological data. At its core, it is a
[genome browser](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Genome_browser), but it has also
been built as an extensible platform to enable visualization of all kinds of
biological data.

For those of you who have used the original JBrowse, you'll recognize many of
the ideas and use cases JBrowse 2 was built around. JBrowse 2 is a complete
rewrite of the original JBrowse, however, and so there are some differences. We
hope that you will see that these differences, along with the modern web
technologies that power JBrowse 2, enable JBrowse 2 to be an even more flexible
and useful tool.

## What does it mean to embed JBrowse 2?

JBrowse 2 is built around the idea of componentization, meaning that the
different pieces that are developed can be re-used to create different final
products. Our full web app, called JBrowse Web, can show not only traditional
linear genome browser views, but can also show Circos-style circular plots,
dotplots, comparative views, and more. It can also display multiple different
views simultaneously.

Today we'll be using JBrowse Linear Genome View, which has a subset of features
of the full app. It can display a single linear view, which is the most common
mode of genome visualization. Where JBrowse Web is a full-page web app, though,
JBrowse Linear Genome View is designed to work within an existing web page. You
can easily add one or several of these views to a page without the use of
iframes, and control and react to each instance individually.

![JBrowse Linear Genome View in a web page](./img/final.png)

## Who this tutorial is for

This tutorial is a good fit if you have an existing web page and you'd like to
have JBrowse running inside that page, although in the tutorial we'll create a
page from scratch so you don't need an existing page to do this tutorial.

If your web page is built with React, you can install our
[JBrowse Linear Genome View React Component](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@jbrowse/react-linear-genome-view)
from NPM instead of adding it like is done in this guide. A lot of the content
of this tutorial would still be relevant to setting up and configuring the view,
though.

Also, another option for your web site is to add the full JBrowse Web app as a
new page in your site. This might be an option if the JBrowse Linear Genome View
is missing features you need.

## What you need

We recommend having Node.js installed so that you can have an easy way to run a
server as well as be able to install the JBrowse CLI. Node.js has various
installers [here](https://nodejs.org/en/download/), or if you are on Mac or
Linux and plan on doing more extensive JavaScript development, we recommend
using [NVM](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm).

You can do most of this tutorial with a simple text editor and some way to serve
files (just opening the HTML files we create in a browser won't work, you'll
need a server). If you have Node.js installed, you can run a simple server by
opening your terminal in the directory you want to serve and running `npx serve`
(or you can install it globally with `npm install -g serve` and then run
`serve`).

We'll also be using the JBrowse CLI, although you can technically complete the
tutorial without it. You can install it after installing Node.js by running
`npm install -g @jbrowse/cli`. Check that it installed properly by running
`jbrowse --help`.
